Let's finish the post functionality by making sure we can delete posts
and as always, feel free to do that on your own as a practice.
Create the appropriate query or mutation and the respective resolver functionality on your own and
feel free to edit the frontend too.
After a short pause which you can use to pause the video and
try it on your own, we'll do it together.
Were you successful?
Well again we start in the schema of our backend and I'll add that delete post mutation here and
I expect to get the ID of the post which should be deleted,
I will then only return a boolean that indicates whether that succeeded or not.
This is my mutation,
more interesting is the resolver
for that. Let's go to the resolvers file here and there,
I'll add delete post, I'll retrieve the ID from the incoming data package so to say, from the arguments
object and I'll write this in the async function syntax again so that I can use async await
and again I'll start by checking the login status.
Now obviously you could refactor this into a common function,
I deliberately have the more verbose setup here to make it really clear that we have this check in
every of these resolver functions.
After knowing that the user is signed in, let's fetch the post we want to remove so that we can check
whether the creator of the post is the user who tries to delete it.
So we get the post by awaiting for post find by ID with the chosen post ID.
Now here we can check if we don't have a post and again, this is some logic
we can copy from before and the same is true for our authorization
check regarding the quality of the creator and the logged in user. So I'll copy these two if statements
in here to check if the post exists and then I want to compare the creator with the logged in user.
Now important, since I don't populate my creator field here,
the creator here is not an object with _id but creator itself is already the ID
because that is how it's stored in a post
and we need to call populate to change that in the result,
we're not doing that here so we only access creator to directly get the ID of the user who created the post.
Now we got all the checks in place we need and after this, we want to delete the image that belongs to
that post.
Now for that, I have that functionality in app.js
here,
now I will copy that and put it into a separate folder, util where I will add a file, js file and in
there, I will just import path by requiring
path and I will import the file system by requiring that core node module.
Now in here, I can export clear image so that we can use it in other files and I want to use it in
app.js where I already did use it in the past,
there I don't need the file system import anymore but I will add an import to my own clear file functionality
by requiring util file and then here, I use destructuring to get that clear image function.
So this is now using that restructured code where I moved that function into a seperate file and in
the resolver,
I can now also import that,
so here I also want to import clear image by requiring
and here I need to go up one level, then util folder and then the file file.
So now I have clear image available and now at the bottom of my resolvers in that delete post resolver
here, I will call clear image and pass my post image
url in there because that is the path of the image on my server.
Now after this was done, I will await the result of post find by id and remove and I'll do that for my
post with that ID.
Once this is done, I just need to make sure I remove that post from my user as well,
so for that I first of all need to get my user by awaiting user find by ID for the user ID stored in
my request object due to the auth middleware we added earlier and on that user, I can then access
the posts and pull my ID,
so the ID of the post which I just deleted and thereafter,
I will await the result of user save to save that updated user back to the database and then I will
return true because remember in my schema, I defined that I want to return a boolean.
I could wrap this all with try catch, this part to also then return false if it fails and that is generally
something we can do on all these resolvers,
I will not do it here to keep this code a little bit more simple but in the end, that is something you
could add, important is that you here return true.
That is the backend,
let's now work on the frontend as well and let's make sure we can trigger the deletion of the posts
there. For that in the feed.js file,
you want to go to the delete post handler and there again, define your graphql query
which has the shape you already know and love.
In that query here, I'll run a mutation,
the delete post mutation,
the ID here is injected between double quotation marks, it's
the post ID I am getting as an argument
and we have no nested object here so we couldn't even get any nested or detailed data,
we only get true or false.
That is my query
and then here, again I'll send this request localhost8080/graphql, the method as always will
be a post request,
we add our token,
we also set the content type to application
json and of course we need to add our query expression as a body by using json stringify and
passing our graphql query in there. We don't handle errors like that as you learned, instead
we do it on the parsed response because there that is where we would have an errors object if there are any
errors,
so I'll copy that code from above and then move that in here to check if there is an errors object which means
something did go wrong and then deleting the post would fail
and that is it.
Now let's save that as well as the backend code
and let's click on delete here and that is looking good
and I can carefully delete all my data until there is only one doc left
and if I now refresh my posts, only one doc is there and in users, that user still has two docs or
two posts but that is probably related to something I deleted earlier behind the scenes which is also
the reason why I have two images here.
To validate that everything does work,
let's delete that
and on that user, let's manually delete the two array elements, clear all the posts
as I mentioned, clear all the images here
and now reload, we have no posts now. Let's create a duck and let's give it that duck
image and some content.
Let's also create another item, a cup and give that the cup image here,
you can now view the cup, we see it, we also see the duck here.
Now let me delete the duck,
the cup is still there,
only one image, this is looking good. If I inspect my users, only one item, the cup, so that now makes perfect
sense.
And now let me also try logging in with a different user who didn't create that and there deleting
indeed does not work.
So we have all that in place, let's now finish this all up by making sure we can view and edit our user
status
and again this is a great challenge for you.